again the word of the Lord came to me
saying son of man speak to the children
of your people and say to them when i
bring the sword upon a land and the
people of the land take a man from their
territory and make him their watchman
when he sees the sword coming upon the
land if he blows the trumpet and warns
the people then whoever hears the sound
of the trumpet and does not take warning
if the sword comes and takes him away
his blood shall be on his own head he
heard the sound of the trumpet but did
not take warning his blood shall be upon
himself but he who takes warning will
save his life but if the watchman sees
the sword coming and does not blow the
trumpet and the people are not warned
and the sword comes and takes any person
from among them he is taken away in his
iniquity but his blood I will require at
the watchman's hand so you son of man I
have made you a watchman for the house
of Israel therefore you shall hear a
word from my mouth and warn them for me
when I say to the wicked a wicked man
you shall surely die and you do not
speak to warn the wicked from his way
that wicked man shall die in his
iniquity but his blood I will require at
your hand nevertheless if you warn the
wicked to turn from his way and he does
not turn from his way he shall die in
his iniquity
but you have delivered your soul
therefore you O son of man say to the
house of Israel thus you say if our
transgressions and our sins lie upon us
and we pine away in them how can we then
live say to them as I live says the Lord
God I have no pleasure in the death of
the wicked but that the wicked turn from
his way and live turn turn from your
evil ways for why should you die o house
of Israel therefore you O son of man say
to the children of your people the
righteousness of the righteous man shall
not deliver him in the day of his
transgression as for the wickedness of
the wicked he shall not fall because of
it in the day that he turns from his
wickedness nor shall the righteous be
able to live because of his
righteousness in the day that he sends
when I say to the righteous that he
shall surely live but he trust in his
own righteousness and commits iniquity
none of his righteous works shall be
remembered but because of the iniquity
that he has committed he shall die again
when I say to the wicked you shall
surely die
if he turns from his sin and does what
is lawful and right if the wicked
restores the pledge gives back what he
has stolen and walks in the statutes of
life without committing iniquity he
shall surely live he shall not die
none of his sins which he has committed
shall be remembered against him he has
done what is lawful and right he shall
surely live yet the children of your
people say the way of the Lord is not
fair
but it is their way which is not fair
when the righteous turns from his
righteousness and commits iniquity he
shall die because of it but when the
wicked turns from his wickedness and
does what is lawful and right he shall
live because of it yet you say the way
of the Lord is not fair o house of
Israel I will judge every one of you
according to his own ways and it came to
pass in the 12th year of our captivity
in the tenth month on the fifth day of
the month that one who had escaped from
Jerusalem came to me and said the city
has been captured now the hand of the
Lord had been upon me the evening before
the man came who had escaped and he had
opened my mouth so when he came to me in
the morning my mouth was opened and I
was no longer mute then the word of the
Lord came to me saying son of man they
who inhabit those ruins in the land of
Israel are saying Abraham was only one
and he inherited the land but we are
many the land has been given to us as a
possession therefore say to them thus
says the Lord God you eat meat with
blood you lift up your eyes toward your
idols and shed blood
should you then possess the land you
rely on your sword you commit
abominations and you defile one
another's wives should you then possess
the land say thus to them thus says the
Lord God as I live surely those who are
in the ruins shall fall by the sword and
the one who is in the open field I will
give to the beasts to be devoured and
those who are in the strongholds and
caves shall die of the pestilence for I
will make the land most desolate her
arrogant strength shall cease and the
mountains of Israel shall be so desolate
that no one will pass through then they
shall know that I am the Lord when I
have made the land most desolate because
of all their abominations which they
have committed
as for you son of man the children of
your people are talking about you beside
the walls and in the doors of the houses
and they speak to one another everyone
saying to his brother please come and
hear what the word is that comes from
the Lord so they come to you as people
do they sit before you as my people and
they hear your words but they do not do
them for with their mouths they show
much love but their hearts pursue their
own gain
indeed you are to them as a very lovely
song of one who has a pleasant voice and
can play well on an instrument for they
hear your words but they do not do them
and when this comes to pass surely it
will come then they will know that a
prophet has been among
you